- [Instructor] There are potentially times
in a microservice's architecture
where you need to have true atomic transactions
because eventual consistency isn't good enough.
Atomic transactions are sometimes needed in a system.
When those atomic transactions span multiple data domains
there is a distinct need to build special logic and systems
to handle these unique use cases.
One of the primary characteristics of these services
is the need to guarantee ACID compliant transactions
across more than one data domain.
If you need atomic transactions in a single domain,
there is no need to specialize a service
because the underlying implementation is hidden.
You may need to provide services
that support failure domains and, within those domains,
provide rollback of the entire domain's scope.
These services force a blocking API call
until the commit is successful.
While you can logically do these asynchronously,
usually the caller needs a guarantee of success
or an error, so the API must be synchronous and blocking.
You may be tempted to use data domains
with distributed transactions.
I would highly suggest you stop and don't do this
because of the complexity that it adds to your system.
Designing these atomic services is very simple,
but you need to do some homework first.
First, you need to ensure
that you really must have the service be atomic.
While many times people say they need atomic transactions,
the cases of actually needing them are fewer
and further between.
Spend some time and make sure
that your stakeholders understand the complexity
as well as the constraints that this puts on your system
as a whole and try to encourage them
to look at other options.
But, at the end, they may decide
that they need an atomic transaction,
and when they do, your next step is to ensure
that your underlying data domains share a database.
If they don't, you need to merge them
into a single shared database
in order to build your atomic service.
This risk also needs to be understood by all involved
as well because now you're modifying existing functionality.
You'll also need to get clear and concise rules defined
about the transaction.
Because this will be a blocking call
that is not a normal thing on a distributed system,
make sure everything, including rollback conditions,
are well defined.
Consider documenting these rules in code comments
or readme files for future reference.
Finally, you need to implement the service as normal,
but consider fast failure before even starting a transaction
as a much more serious concept.
Rollbacks take time, especially in a blocking call,
and those confirmations from remote systems
can become bottlenecks.
A final word here on these.
If you can avoid them, please do.
They muddy the water for distributed systems as a whole.
You cannot adequately distribute the databases
as effectively.
You cannot avoid network congestion.
Try to sell your stakeholders on eventual consistency
or simulated rollbacks.
But each of these also has pain points of its own
and all options really need to be considered
before walking down a single path.